Feature/android getting started live data (#659)
MapsIndoors/docs: src/android/v3/getting-started/livedata.md

---
title: Enable Live Data
eleventyNavigation:
  title: Enable Live Data
  key: android-v3-getting-started-enable-live-data
  parent: android-v3-getting-started
  order: 170
---

{% include "src/shared/live-data/live-data-intro.md" %}

{% include "src/shared/getting-started/live-data/live-position-demo-preconditions.md" %}

> Enabling of Live Data through `MapControl` can be done as simple as calling `mapControl.enableLiveData()` with a [Domain Type](https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/reference/android/v3/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling Live Data through `MapControl` is as simple as calling `mapControl.enableLiveData()` with a [Domain Type](https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/reference/android/v3/index.html).
```

Is this still correct, @timMikkelsen?

> We will create a new method on our `MapsActivity` called `enableLiveData()` to enable live data for the solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create a new method on our `MapsActivity` called `enableLiveData()` to enable Live Data for the Solution.
```

<mi-tabs>
<mi-tab label="Java" tab-for="java"></mi-tab>
<mi-tab label="Kotlin" tab-for="kotlin"></mi-tab>
<mi-tab-panel id="java">
<a href="https://github.com/MapsIndoors/MapsIndoors-Getting-Started-Android/blob/master/app/src/main/java/com/example/mapsindoorsgettingstarted/MapsActivity.java#L270-L278">MapsActivity.java</a>

```java
void enableLiveData() {

>     //Enabling live data for the three known live data domains that are enabled for this solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    //Enabling Live Data for the three known Live Data Domains enabled for this Solution.
```

    mMapControl.enableLiveData(LiveDataDomainTypes.AVAILABILITY_DOMAIN);
    mMapControl.enableLiveData(LiveDataDomainTypes.OCCUPANCY_DOMAIN);
    mMapControl.enableLiveData(LiveDataDomainTypes.POSITION_DOMAIN);
}
```

</mi-tab-panel>
<mi-tab-panel id="kotlin">
<a href="https://github.com/MapsIndoors/MapsIndoors-Getting-Started-Android-Kotlin/blob/main/app/src/main/java/com/example/mapsindoorsgettingstartedkotlin/MapsActivity.kt#L227-L235">MapsActivity.kt</a>

```kotlin
private fun enableLiveData() {

>     //Enabling live data for the three known live data domains that are enabled for this solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    //Enabling Live Data for the three known Live Data Domains enabled for this Solution.
```

    mMapControl.enableLiveData(LiveDataDomainTypes.AVAILABILITY_DOMAIN)
    mMapControl.enableLiveData(LiveDataDomainTypes.OCCUPANCY_DOMAIN)
    mMapControl.enableLiveData(LiveDataDomainTypes.POSITION_DOMAIN)
}
```

</mi-tab-panel>
</mi-tabs>

> By consequence, `MapControl` will manage the Live Data subscriptions needed for the current visible map and provide a default rendering of the Live Updates depending on the Domain Type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By consequence, `MapControl` will manage the Live Data subscriptions needed for the currently visible map and provide a default rendering of the Live Data updates depending on the Domain Type.
```

> In the context of your view controller showing a map, just add the call after creating your `MapControl` object used in the `Activity` in the `initMapControl()` method created earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the context of your view controller showing a map, add the call after creating your `MapControl` object used in the `Activity` in the `initMapControl()` method created earlier.
```

<mi-tabs>
<mi-tab label="Java" tab-for="java"></mi-tab>
<mi-tab label="Kotlin" tab-for="kotlin"></mi-tab>
<mi-tab-panel id="java">
<a href="https://github.com/MapsIndoors/MapsIndoors-Getting-Started-Android/blob/master/app/src/main/java/com/example/mapsindoorsgettingstarted/MapsActivity.java#L148-L168">MapsActivity.java</a>

```java
void initMapControl(View view) {
        //Creates a new instance of MapControl
        mMapControl = new MapControl(this);

>         //Enable live data on the map

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        //Enable Live Data on the map
```

        enableLiveData();
        ...
}
```

</mi-tab-panel>
<mi-tab-panel id="kotlin">
<a href="https://github.com/MapsIndoors/MapsIndoors-Getting-Started-Android-Kotlin/blob/main/app/src/main/java/com/example/mapsindoorsgettingstartedkotlin/MapsActivity.kt#L116-L134">MapsActivity.kt</a>

```kotlin
private fun initMapControl(view: View) {
    //Creates a new instance of MapControl
    mMapControl = MapControl(this)

>     //Enable live data on the map

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    //Enable Live Data on the map
```
